Like I outlined in my proposal and my presentation video, my project is very much so based on Andrej Karpathy's micrograd repo, implementing all of that core functionality in point-free idiomatic code and then extending it further with tensor support. The autograd.hs file implements all of the scalar concepts needed to build out a neural network. It includes all the standard binary and unary operations that one would need as well as 4 different non-linearity functions (ReLu, Softmax, TanH, Sigmoid). The toposort function builds out the gradient DAG.

The tensor file implements all of the same functionality but extended to tensors. The way tensors are represented is as a list of values and then the shape, which is used for element access. The ZipWith and Map native haskell functions are also implemented for Tensors. The core function is MatMul, which is the basis of a neural network's linear layer. The demo neural network and NN.hs files don't actually make use of the tensors (as my original goal of OCR was a much larger undertaking than expected), but the foundations are there to easily create a tensor-based neural net. It is pretty much just matrix multiplication after all.

The Neural Network file just builds out the basic functions needed for a neural network like zeroing out gradients, accessing all the parameters, and taking a step in the negative gradient direction. Since this is a scalar implementation, the linear layer is just a scalar sum between the inputs and the weights and then a bias is added on top. The MLP is just a list of linear layers.

The Demo builds out a very small scalar neural network that learns the XOR pattern with pretty good accuracy and low loss. The hyperparameters were tuned to this problem, where the MLP has an input layer of two neurons (two inputs), 8 hidden neurons in the hidden layer, and then the one output neuron of course. Ultimately, this isn't a great demo because there is essentially no data (obviously no train/val/test split) and this problem is very easy and overkill for a neural network. Nonetheless, the results are interesting, regardless of the network's blatant overfitting.

I do think the project could have been improved by using more idiomatic immutable code (I use a lot of IORef and mutable code), but I honestly could not come up with a better solution or a way around it. It seems that deep learning and neural nets are solutions that require mutability and state, so an idiomatic haskell implementation is pretty difficult. 
